---
title: "Get Close to the Revenue"
date: "2018-09-10"
---

When it comes to making career decisions in the software field to maximize your earnings, get close to the revenue. Getting close to the revenue means something different in each of the three major departments at an enterprise software company -- 

## Sales
Can't get much closer to the revenue than this. Employees in Sales have a direct and clear claim to repsonsibility for some certain amount of revenue, whether it's actual deal dollars in the case of Account Executives or intros that lead to deals for Sales Development Reps. An AE's or SDR's revenue impact cannot be denied or hand-waved away, which provides an excellent discussion point when it comes time for salary negotations and performance reviews. There's also no upper limit on a salesperson's revenue impact which means there's also no upper limit on the compensation the enterprise is willing to give you. Continue to generate revenue and you'll continue to be rewarded.

## Development
Getting close to the revenue here means working on the company's projects and initiatives that already are or very soon will be directly generating revenue. This means staying away from the passion projects, from the interal tools, from the open source work. Build things that the company sells. Unfortunately for all the engineers out there, the link between their work and the company's revenues are much more tenuous which makes directly working on revenue generating projects all the more important. Engineers are fortunate in that there is no upper limit on their revenue impact. A good product can generate an unbounded amount of revenue due to the low/non-existant marginal costs of software. 

## Professional Services
The unfortunate department. Consultants have a direct link to revenue generation via billable hours so there's no doubt about revenue responsibility. The issue is that the revenue that can be generated by a consultant is limited by the number of services hours sold by the Sales team. A great salesperson can sell licenses/services as fast as customers will buy them, a great engineer can theoretically build a single product that can generate millions and millions in a revenue, but a great consultant can never bill more than the project limit. This means a consultant's revenue contribution is limited by the hours in the day moreso than by their skill or knowledge. To make things worse, there's also no opportunity for a consultant to sell _more_ of their services to clients since everything needs to go through Sales. This hard upper cap on revenue contribution directly leads to a compensation cap as well. There's also no opporunity for consultants for


Ultimately, sucessfully arguing for higher compensations comes down to two points:

* Having a role that generates as much revenue for the organization as possible
* Sucessfully taking credit for that revenue generation

Employees in Development and Professional Services can really only excel at one of those points. People in Sales can do both. This explains their higher compensations even though their work is non-technical and less specialized. So to conclude, if you're trying to decide which department of an enterprise software company to launch your career in or you're feeling disenchanted with what you've picked, give Sales a second thought. Your compensation is only limited by your competance and your work ethic. And that's ignoring the other ancillary benefits of a Sales role, but that's for another blog post perhaps...
